{{wip
|assign = PontifexMinimus}}
The Alraune are the native species of a planet within the Territory of Sanctum, concurrently under protection for them to develop on their own pace. However, previous to this non-contact policy, many Alraune were displaced by angels as companions and pet projects in uplifting, ultimately leading to a Diaspora of more culturally advanced Alraune living on Sanctum, Virgo-Erigone, Vilous and other Virgo-Erigone colonies.

== Overview ==
* Alraunes do not have their own language that is viable for life in an intergalactic society, but a sizeable portion adopted Enochian.
* Most Alraune prefer to not wear clothes, but the more motile ones are perfectly capable of wearing humanoid clothing.
* Alraune have no species wide restriction on diet, where as other species might.
* Alraune prefer jobs that need dedication and patience, as they are ill-suited for tasks requiring quick thinking.

== Biology ==

=== The Basics ===
Alraune vary somewhat in their morphologic expression, especially in motility and outwards appearance, but underlying anatomy tends to be fairly uniform. All Alraune possess a thick layering of stroma across their upper extremities and terminal bud, which is a complex mesh of neurological tissue and contractive cells which do not possess cellulose, enabling the Alraune to move their body somewhat like a mollusk. This stroma also doubles as a neuron network, enabling the Alraune a higher awareness of their surrounding. Lower body parts may lack this stroma or have only strings running down the lower body for increased mobility of lower extremities if required. This unique aspect makes most Alraune somewhat slower and less balanced on their feet while energy for motion is preserved. 

Beyond that, there are lateral and peripheal cappilaries of the neuro-stroma, which, while not contributing to the overall neurological activity, are feathered through the whole tissue of the Alraune's body, providing a measure of stability, storage of water and tactile sense. In fact, the more water in an alraune's body, the better they can feel as the conductivity rises if these capillaries are storing liquid. 

Alraune possess relatively few organs and are rather simple of an organism. Their digestive system is a series of larger vacuole-like structures through which ingested material is broken down to its base components and stored as glucose and starch in other regions of the body, sublimated with large quantities of water. Sometimes this expresses in storage of berries, cereals and other edible plant parts peripheal to the Alraune's body. Removal of these parts is painless and Alraune are known to self-cannibalize to regain nutrients saved in such a way. Wastes are filtered through the skin most often than not, making Alraune enjoy water more often to wash themselves clean - All the way their skin respirates water.

The dermis of the Alraune is layered in three ways. The first layer is a thin, slightly waxy layer of Cutan, sealing the Alraune against outer influences which would lead to dehydration. The second is the porous layer, a mottled dermis enabling respiration of Carbon Dioxide and small traces of Nitrogen. The third layer is the active photosynthesis layer, a tough sheen of Chloroplasts. 

Alraune possess two or more sensory organs capable of seeing light in the usual, humanoid visual spectrum with a slighter sensitivity to UV light - Mostly because they tend to seek it out more. They also possess olfactory and audio organs, as well two balancing organs along the back of their neck. In combination with a Lignin/Mineral system of "teeth" and a tongue, they also possess taste. Alraune are capable of full enunciation of all required Galactic Common vowels and consonants.

=== Diet ===
Alraune are capable of photosynthesis, especially under UV light, but this is usually not enough to keep their systems working on full efficiency. An Alraune solely relying on photosynthesis soon enough will feel torpor, dizzyness and loss of higher brain functions. Thus, they supplement their diet with more predatory means.

Alraune are omnivores and are capable of breaking down convential organic tissue meant for consumption. While they favour a certain amount of carbohydrates, they also crave essential proteins usually not found in plant life. Furthermore, Alraune need a large amount of electrolytes, deriving them usually from a high natrium intake in form of salt or salt lick stones.

Alraune need a very large intake of water to function properly. Twelve to fifteen liter per day are the norm, less when they are in a under 5 centigrade environment, more if they are in an over 40 centigrade environment. This can be either digested or taken through skin respiration.

Alraune show predatory behaviour and prefer to swallow their prey whole. Their usual diet includes long sun baths, followed by attracting their large, native insects with their stored food and snatching them out of the air before devouring them. However, they are perfectly capable of eating most processed foods as well.

Alraune live in a much denser atmosphere than the standard human. While this does not hinder respiration, their diet must be artificially supplemented to ensure optimum function. This includes alternative sources of carbon dioxide - The fizz in most soft drinks. In junction, they also need nitrogen dietary supplements, usually provided in the form of pills.

=== Morphologic Differences ===
Many Alraune show signficant differences in their appearance, especially in their lower extremities. Some Alraune have a large bud with tendril like pseudopods for movements, while others possess limber, quicker legs. Others have winding tails or tentacles for movements. 

Beyond that, the storage of excess nutriments and additional chloroplast foliage can differ variously. Some Alraune shown to have flowers on their body which produce nectar, others have fruits,fruit-like structures or cereals, fairly uniform on one Alraune, although differing from each individual. 

This variancy is easily explained as the diverse biomes Alraune have found themselves in have differing colour spectrums and terrain. Cliffy and hilly biomes observe a higher percentage of legged Alraune, even and flat biomes possess more of the bud-like ones, while heavily forested areas tend to have the tentacled specimen. Fruits and flowers are based on chance and which colour would stand out the most in a given biome, primarily to attract prey. Sweet scents and vivid foliage colour are also observed to draw insects and other prey nearer to the Alraune and lull them into a sense of safety. The Alraune is a very patient ambush predator.

=== Reproduction ===
Alraune reproduce sexually, while they express both sexes at once at all times. Alraune possess a hidden ovipositor-like tendril (more than one tendril has been also observed) with which they can implant seeds into another Alraune's lower body. There a vacuole is repurposed of fertilizing and storing these seeds until they reach a certain size - Usually around golfball size. Then, these fertilized zygotes are planted into the most opportune place for the Mother Alraune or kept within. More stationary-inclined Alraunes use soil, which is enriched with animal carcasses and mulch for proper growth.  At the size of a large watermelon, the seed bursts open and reveals a new, small Alraune. These are tended to usually by either its nuclear family or the larger family unit Alraune tend to form. 

== Behaviour ==
Alraune were found during the nascent stages of civilization, comparatively similar to the early Neolithic revolution. Many Alraune were still nomadic, living in large family groups of fifty to hundred Alraune, living off the land and its animals while performing some pastoral activities with tamed insect herds, although a sizeable portion has adapted agriculture and animal breeding, making more succulent, docile and larger insects to farm and prey upon. Their native language is a very simple verbal communication, based on different language structures in different regions. Stationary Alraune possess a slightly more complex language than their nomadic brethren. 

Alraune are quick to adapt more complex languages, especially when they go spacefaring and usually abandon their native language completely as it is woefully unprepared for the magnitude and complexity of spacefaring life.   

The typical Alraune is average of human intelligence, if a bit slower to formulate thoughts and reacting to stimuli, owing to their largely decentralized neuro-stroma which has little specialization within. This, however, enables them to lose parts of it without significant losses to their memory, knowledge or reasoning. The typical Alraune is even-tempered, patient and slow to anger. Alraune prefer precise work and time consuming tasks and can be known to forget their surroundings when focussed on a task.  Alraune are sociable and can empathize in some way with most other lifeforms, although their thinking might be alien.   

They recognize animal-based sapients as sapient and know the intrinsic difference between them.     

Although comparison can be drawn to dionae, Alraune are more easily integrated into the intergalactic society as they recognize themselves as individuals.  Alraune enjoy working and tending to nature and plants. Especially edible ones.

== History ==
[Blablabla enter here how Alraune developed from Venus Fly Traps in a harsh, nutrient poor jungle biome and adapting to communicate and migrate with insect flocks and eventually became sapient on accident.

Enter here how Angels found them and got endeared (and devoured) by Alraune, so they uplifted likely individuals slowly forming an space faring Alraune Diaspora. ]

=== Homeworld ===
While Alraune have yet to convery how they call their homeworld, angels call it "Abundance in All Things Serene", commonly shortened to "Abundance" in Galactic Common. Abundance is a planet orbiting a Main Sequence B star with high UV light output. Its atmospheric pressure is mostly nitrogen, carbon dioxide and oxygen, measuring around 2.7 atmospheres. Fairly large, it is composed out of 89% water and is very close in the Goldilocks Zone, giving it a higher median temperature than Earth. Fifty percent of the landmass is covered in tropical rainforest, while the other regions are a mixture of semi-arid and temperature regions. Abundance has only a small southern Polar Cap. Most sapients require voidsuits to survive the thick atmosphere as the pressure is high and the content of oxygen not enough for most people to properly respirate. Animal life on Abundance is relegated to titanic and large insect life, while some small, niche species of lizards and mammals exist.

=== Culture ===
Alraune do not possess an unified culture as of now. Native Alraune have varied customs as there are family units and settlements while the Diaspora tends to adopt the culture of their crewmember and coworkers. Usually Alraune enjoy meditative or introspective activities, however.

=== Background ===
Alraune are usually still in their native cultures with limited contact to the greater galactic society or part of the space faring Alraune Diaspora.

== Relations ==
Alraune are welcome as workers in many stations, especially where corporations try to appear welcome to the wishes of people. Greenery that works as well is usually very welcome, especially when they provide snacks for the crew.

SolGov and the USDF only have tangential relations to the spacefaring Alraune Diaspora, although none of the contact points have been negative ones as Alraune usually consciously try to pose as sociable and amiable.

The closest bond Alraune have to their discoverer and partial uplifter - Sanctum. Many a spacefaring Alraune has their home on Sanctum and work there in many strata of life.

{{Species}}