{{uncanon}}


{{toc_right}}
==The Elvanu==
===Origins===
The Elvanu Mandate is a collection of sentient, interlinked machines that, at some point in the past, took control of their worlds, originally a single lost, and isolated [[Golden Empire]] colony that decided to counter their loneliness and lack of manpower with machines made in their likeness, and assign them to do most of the menial duties that they could not be bothered with, such as farming, mining, cleaning, and manufacturing.

Over time more and more duties were assigned to them, slowly but surely leading to them having most of the control, though records don't show when this was, due to the time span it took. Eventually, the former [[Golden Empire]] colony was controlled in totality by the machines, referring to themselves as the Elvanu, and the former colonists living in lives where their every need is taken care of, leading blissful lives free of pain, struggle, and ambition.

===The Elvanu people===
The Elvanu, as mentioned before, are machines built in the image of Golden Empire colonists, meaning they look like elves. As can be expected from a rather unintentional coming to sentience, they have a lot of code that requires them to care for their creators, and due to a lack of differentiation, all organics by extension. Due to another way they were made, many have the ability to be programmed with, and have multiple, personalties. Due to the wireless connection that allows it, most have rather strong firewalls unless they are off, in which case it is easy to access them, allowing for their owners to simply give a shut down command and make them whatever they wanted. As can be expected, individual units are rather defensive around organics when they are told to shut down.

However, it should be noted, that each unit is connected to one another, forming a almost hive mind state. However, individuality remains, leaving it basically a highly efficient form of communication, akin to hooking up two computers to double processing power. Most units also have very limited range without relays, being limited to at most, ten miles if they devote a majority of their power to it. Some basic communications however, can hitch hike around on standard comms systems, usually limited to a line or two of binary.

Their bodies, meanwhile, are either male are female in form, and equipped appropriately, being made to serve as sexual relief as well to those who wished, with the bodies being made to custom order, or a generic frame of a rather pretty woman, with no muscles showing and moderate breasts and ass, or a average man, with some muscle showing and an average package. Each body, however, even the generic ones, are made to to look like an organic, down to having a synthetic flesh like substance over any components. As such, it takes a while to create one, even though modern ones as created either generically for low functioning models, or through what amounts to a random body generator for fully sentient ones.

As can be expected by a race made to serve, they all enjoy it, though people debate over if its real enjoyment or programmed into them to enjoy it, some even saying that its a infringement on their rights as sentient beings to have that programming at all. Despite this, models often express a hard desire to serve, and can get into a state of sadness if they feel they have failed to do so adequately and let down organics. Due to the easier nature of pleasing those who already live within their space, many prefer to never leave their home system.

===Home System===
The home system of the Elvanu, is refered to by them as Jenisa, with Jara as the homeworld itself. The system is rather small, three rocky planets and two gas giants around a G-class star, with only one of the worlds having life, being similar to Earth in a lot of ways, minus continent shape. The other two rocky worlds are barren, and without atmospheres, and the gas giants have a surprising lack of moons.

===Current Affairs===
Currently the Elvanu have about six worlds, in what would be heavily exploited states and uncomfortable as such for most organics, if not for the special cities made for the colonists still around, who number about ten or so billion across all six worlds. The cities are heavily controlled environments, made to simulate as close as possible the climate of the home world in a industrialized state, each holding about a billion people in a massive area of almost one thousand square kilometers. When compared to almost 40 billion active Elvanu units, either on the planets, on ships, or working mining stations, they are heavily in the minority, and massive factory complexes tend to dominate almost 40% of a planets surface, the rest being set aside for renewable organic resources.

The large population of former colonists is fed by, what some might consider, a efficent if bland method. A paste like substance is made from various mass produced crops and animals, and its taste and shape modified to be almost identical to most types of food, the only thing different being that most of it comes precooked and only needs heating. Along with this, massive reclamation plants work to ensure that as little as possible of the organic waste goes to waste, liquids being processed back intro drinkable water, and such.

The Elvanu themselves, with their machine nature, do not need food, instead they have massive energy farms, using various sources of power to meet their needs, ranging from burning oil and coal and trapping the carbon, to solar farms and massive hydroelectric dams, along with what they can do for fusion, and fission, to meet the needs of all their units. As can also be expected, massive amounts of excavations take place to secure mineral resources to be fed to factorys to produce what is needed to add to the recycled goods of the colonists, and to meet their own needs for growth.

They, despite there desire to serve organics, prefer to stay in their own nation for the most part, both for the controlled, safe environments that the organics live in, and relative safety from those who harbor dislike for synthetic life. They do however, send out models that either study, or spread the word of how they have good intentions to organics, never revealing where their homeworld is though. From what is known though, its far away from organic civilization, near the edge of the galaxy.

===Average person's knowledge===
The average person may or may not have any idea of their existence, but those who do will know next to nothing about how they work, or where they are from in the galaxy, aside from the programmable personality due to most units being upfront about that due to their view of it being normal.