
{{SidebarJob
| jobname = Pathfinder
| img_file = pathfinder.png
| tagline = I will turn this shuttle around!
| alt_titles = Explorer, Pathfinder
| department = Science
| access = Science, Excursion shuttle, Gateway
| duties = Organizing and commanding a exploration of points of interest accessible via Gateway or shuttle travel
| supervisors = Research Director
| difficulty = Hard
}}

A great leader is born from hard work and determination. Leaders are those that can find the way even in the darkest of night! Even as their subordinates one by one down a abominations '''gullet'''. It's not a easy or a pretty job, but darn does it feel good when the plan goes right for a change.

== Setup ==
While the process may be daunting to some, the feeling of executing a fast and efficient setup is more then worth it. Upon arriving on the station, you should check with the other head's of staff to make sure station set up is finished. Upon doing so you can begin the task of working with any explorer personal to define possible mission parameters. This includes requesting permission from the present Research Director, should one not be found the next higher up should be contacted. Upon receiving the go ahead you may start the argues task of supplying your waiting explorers.

== Exploring ==
Just before setting out with your motley crew for <s>Death</s> science. A few things should be considered, the main important one being who currently on your team. If a '''[[Research Director|Research Directo]]<nowiki/>r''' is currently with you, they are required to follow your orders while off station.  Next before you leave you should without a doubt be familiar with the '''[[Standard Operating Procedure#Scientific Expeditions|Standard Operating Procedures]]''' as you will need to enforce them. Otherwise, once you are off world it is your job to <s>babysit</s> command your squad to a mission success!

== Away Team ==
It is suggested to have a varied set of skills on your team. Standard Operating Procedure Recommends... 
* Pathfinder or [[Research Director]]
* Any available [[Explorer|Explorers]]
* An [[Station Engineer|Engineer]]
* A [[Scientist]]
* One [[Job Guides#Medical|Medical personnel]]
* A [[Pilot]]
Volunteers may also join at their own risk after signing a waiver and showing one of the required skills above.

== Weaponry and You ==
Unlike the rest of science, who are not permitted to leave the R&D area with live weapons, you are permitted to carry weapons to further your job as necessary, but '''only to and from the shuttle or gateway''' <s>legally, anyway</s>. For legal purposes, you should leave your weapons in R&D or Security when going off-duty. Any explorer weapons recovered by a [[Search and Rescue]] crew member for example, should be <s>kept to defend against wily predators</s> turned over to R&D or Security for safe keeping.

Security is within their rights to charge you with possessing contraband, should you be searched for some other offense while not on duty. If you assault someone in the bar and while being processed security discovers your x-ray laser, you ''may'' be charged with possessing major contraband.

{{Jobs}}