---
title: United Federation
permalink: wiki/United_Federation/
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Lore
---

The United Federation is a young alliance of planets that have agreed to
exist semi-autonomously under a single central hybrid government,
sharing the ideals of liberty, equality, and rights for all. It is one
of the larger known interstellar powers in known space, having
encompassed over 3000 light years and having 50 member worlds that have
willingly joined the union. The number of member worlds is currently
rising with allies of the Federation working to improve relations in
order to join her numbers. Her exploratory, scientific, diplomatic, and
defense functions are carried out by her [Star
Fleet](/wiki/Star_Fleet "wikilink") with emphasis on exploration. The Capital
of the United Federation is located on the founding member planet of
[Gaia](/wiki/Gaia "wikilink") in the castle city of [Bonta](Bonta "wikilink").

History
-------

### Humble Beginnings

The United Federation was initially just called the Federation-Alliance
of Gaia and was founded in 2195 when the last few nations of Gaia joined
the international governing body known locally as the United Nations of
Gaia (Similar to the United Nations of Earth). Looking to the stars for
expansion, The newly formed Federation of Gaia begun their star fleet
projects, creating pre-FTL vessels that slowly helped expand the borders
of the planet in its star system. After the first FTL-capable ship was
invented in 2224, interest in scientific studies and space travel
skyrocketed and resulted in the advances of technology, medicine,
agriculture, and other scientific fields. This also allowed the
Federation-Alliance to spread out past the Koi solar system (Known at
the time as the Koi Starzone.) The genetics field, however, would test
the nation's cultural ideals, morals, and beliefs.

### Genetic Revolution

Genetics Modification picked up in 2294 after more interest in the field
was generated by a demi-human doctor. The [Project
Jasher](/wiki/Project_Jasher "wikilink") Colonist figured out an effective
method to Gene Therapy based on the [Splicing
Procedure](/wiki/Splicing "wikilink") and Gaian Science, allowing Gene Modding
to create more drastic changes with safer means than previously before
and allowed the application of Gene Therapy for a wider range of ages.
This also allowed for less interference in the creation of "designer
babies," a fad which had previously fell out of fashion due to
unpredictable changes to a child during pregnancy. These new discoveries
especially gathered interest in the colonies who were looking for
effective ways to survive the harshness of the starry frontier. The
advancement in genetics effectively killed what was left of an
underground network of black market organs, a network which was
responsible for a string of disappearances between the 2220s and 2240s
in an era known on Gaia as the [Dark Age of
Space](/wiki/Dark_Age_of_Space "wikilink").

### The Eugenics Civil War

The [Federation Civil War](/wiki/Federation_Civil_War "wikilink"), is a
conflict that started in 2327 and ended in 2330. It tested the ideals
and morality of the Federation, specifically the citizens of Gaia. It
was waged between the Federation-Alliance of Gaia and her colonies,
ending with the intervention of the Confederation of the United Species
which was composed of neutral factions. The main motivating factor that
ignited the war was the change in social structures after Gene Modding
became popular in the colonies and some highly social-focused states on
Gaia, with more gifted individuals starting to appear and replacing less
capable individuals in their field. A new form of racism began to emerge
on both sides with gene modded individuals becoming more arrogant and
excessively aggressive about their roles in society, something that was
later discovered to be a side effect of certain types of gene modding
that were subsequently banned commercially after the war. The loss of
life and racial discrimination seen during this war was so atrocious
that more than two-thirds of all military officers from both
belligerents were sentenced to live out their lives on penal colonies or
publicly executed by firing squad. Enlisted soldiers found guilty of war
crimes were given 15 to life sentences. It is said that, during this
war, the principals of the United Federation were created and seeded
throughout Federation-Alliance space by a navy who had defected early on
in the war. The name of the officer is unknown.

### Establishing the United Federation Government

The foundation for the United Federation started with the Confederation
of the United Species and it was not exactly united at first. Countries
were more like members of an alliance with varying interests and no real
obligations aside from defense. It was expected that a reunited Gaia
sphere would not truly come to be until later in the 2340s due to
unrest. This includes the space-faring aliens who were observing the
conflict with interest, hoping for an impressive and good outcome in the
moral sense.

#### The Confederation

The end of the war saw the rise of the [Confederation of United
Species](/wiki/Confederation_of_United_Species "wikilink"), neutral planets
and colonies who intervened in the civil war and effectively ending both
the warring pro-colonist faction and the Federation-Alliance
governments. While in a sense united by ideals, the Confederation was
anything but a unified government. Because of how the central government
was set up, members were all sovereign and therefore their own
countries, giving their own legislation the right to make up their own
laws and regulations that clashes with their neighbors. Taxing another
member's trade was especially a problem in the confederation as it began
to severely affect the economy's stability. The Confederate government
could not remedy this because, by law, they needed the approval of
four-fifths of the sovereign members to ratify a treaty, a process that
was slow and, in the end, useless because the central government could
not enforce them anyway due to their limited powers over sovereign
members. Becoming increasingly frustrated with the situation, the
government of Gaia, along with members in the [Koi
sector](/wiki/Koi_sector "wikilink"), held a referendum on whether or not to
hold an assembly to establish a federation once again. The more
politically powerful members of the Confederation objected to the Koi
sector's referendum, insinuating that Gaia wanted to re-establish the
old aggressive Federation-Alliance. However, the referendum proceeded
and passed in a landslide, prompting the Confederation to hold an
emergency session on the matter.

#### The Serena Congress

An emergency session, later called the Serena Congress, was held in
Confederate member planet Serena with the initial intent of condemning
the Koi Sector. There, members with more to lose from losing the Koi
sector repeated their grievances about the ghost of the
Federation-Alliance returning. However, Representative Scylla Clyne
replied in a scathing retort, listing all the problems the current
administration structure have and calling the Confederation "nothing
more than a rift-raft of 20 governments all pretending to be one unified
sovereign nation. Its prefix is befitting what we currently are, a con
that cannot get anything done!" While drawing the ire of the larger
members who tried to shout her down, smaller members sided with the
Gaian representative and demanded they let her speak. Unable to stop the
Koi Sector from continuing with their assembly and with other sectors
emboldened by Representative Clyne's speech and threatening to pull out
of the Confederation all together, pro-confederate members were forced
to concede and hold their own referendums for forming a proper
federation. In April of 2338, a vote for a federation to be formed
passed with a clear majority and Gaia was chosen to host The Federation
Assembly.

#### The Federation Assembly

The Federation Assembly was composed of three meetings of the same
delegations from all 20 members. The First Assembly was formed in Bonta,
Gaia one month after the Serena Congress referendum passed and worked
first on the goals that were to be accomplished for future assembly
meetings. Goals including how the government should be formed, how to
check the powers of the government so it doesn't run wild, how to elect
the offices of government, and what the government pledges to do. The
Second Assembly dealt with planning the structure of the government and
the election process as well as how to empower but limit the government
so it doesn't have the power to systematically cause the carnage that
happened during the Eugenics War. The Third Assembly, with everything
laid out by the Second Assembly, wrote the Federation Charter and the
Constitution that was to be ratified by all planet members who attended
The Federation Assembly. It included the duties of the government, what
rights it fundamentally grants to citizens and could not suppress, and
where each power a government would have gone.

##### Sovereignty

One issue to be tackled was the question of a planet's sovereignty.
While most, if not all, the delegates wanted to unite under a single
banner, there was a reluctance to give up sovereignty out of pride or
principle. However, a delegate from the outer regions pointed out that
in exchange for all the member's sovereignty, by law or obligation the
central government would have to settle deputes between members or lose
legitimacy. In this way, the central government protects state rights to
fair trade and deals. Another delegate also pointed out that feelings of
individual sovereignty amount to wanting to stay a confederate state, as
not submitting to the central government is tantamount to not wanting to
be a part of the federation they were working to create. In the end, all
the delegates agreed that giving up their sovereignty did not
necessarily mean giving up their autonomy. In fact, during the Second
and Third Assemblies, it was agreed that members would be working
semi-autonomously, having many freedoms but while also being checked by
the central government so they don't violate another member's rights.

##### The Monarch: Odd One Out

Another issue that arose was the issue of military power. Because the
previous federation's commander-in-chief had so much control over the
military, it was thought that this allowed military power and abuses to
grow unchecked. The solution that was put forth was two-fold. The first
part was to have the legislation, in the form of a committee, and
executive branch both be involved in the policy-making process and
oversight of the military. The second part was to rewrite the role of
Gaia's monarch, who at the time was more of a figurehead than a leader
in the government. Lady Athura, Gaia's monarch, had an extensive
military knowledge and had broken away from Gaia during the Eugenics War
to support the confederation which gave her a lot of popular support.
Thanks to this, opinions about adding a monarchy branch to the
government to maintain control of the military during the Second
Assembly was positive. This popular support eventually led to the
Federation Assembly weaving the Monarch around the branches by the time
The Third Assembly came about.

Government
----------

The Government of the United Federation is a hybrid government that is
based on the previous government before the Eugenics War that now
includes a more active Monarchy branch. A loose description of this
government system would be "Constitutional Monarchy," though it isn't
accurate to the definition. Another way to look at the government system
is a semi-presidential state although the system also is not accurate to
the definition.

### Monarchy

The Monarch represents the unity of the Federation as the Head of State,
often working with numerous advisors from the elected government to
ensure that they represent the will and good of the people on the
Galactic stage to the best of their ability. As such, they are often
involved in the diplomatic process. While also described as the head of
Judiciary, instead of directly getting involved with the judicial
process the Monarch appoints a judge to represent the Royal Court. The
Monarchy does not oversee the Legislature but can offer an opinion on
matters that are brought up in Legislation. They also do not interfere
with the elected Executive, working with them like a Secretary of State
instead of their superior. Because the United Federation is structured
like a representative republic with a collection of states, colonies,
etc, The monarch's role does not oversee to the day-to-day operations of
the government. The Monarch is also expected to have some military
knowledge and ideally, have military experience in order to properly
give input on military matters. The Monarch is essentially the
Commander-in-Chief for the military, giving the final approval on
operations after properly discussing it with their council and their
Executive Branch counterpart. The Monarch's powers as commander in chief
are checked by their Executive branch counterpart in that they must gain
the signature of the Executive on an order they themselves have written
first, as a sign of approval and proper review, before adding their own
signature to the order. The Monarch also cannot declare war themselves,
they must ask permission from the Legislation to wage war against
another foreign power. They also cannot raise taxes to fund the
military, a responsibility that only the Legislation has. The
Legislation also has the ability to remove the Monarch should the
Monarch abuse their position. Aside from the above, the Monarch works on
ceremonies and celebrations.

#### Line of Succession

Ideally, the next monarch would be an heir that is confirmed to be able
to sit on the throne by Legislation and would remain in the role
indefinitely until they abdicate, is voted down in a public
no-confidence referendum due to an elder age or because they are grossly
incompetent. The no-confidence vote must first be presented to the
Legislation and must surpass a margin of 60% of first the elected body
and then the total population of the United Federation to avoid excuses
and abuse of the system. If the Monarch has no heir, it is expected that
they pick one before they pass away. Additionally, even if the previous
Monarch is voted down, the heir can still succeed them if the
Legislation had already confirmed that they can sit on the throne. To
date, there has only been one sitting Monarch during the existence of
the United Federation, Lady Arthura. Her heir is Constie.

#### The Nobility

While a nobility exists within different member planets including Gaia,
their status does not automatically grant them special positions in the
federal government. Only an election by the people or a vote in
legislation can grant them federal government positions and allow them
to properly represent the United Federation. They can't even usurp the
throne by any means other than confirmation by the Legislation. This
means even a relative cannot automatically take the throne if a sitting
Monarch were removed and had no heir. If anything, their status only
grants them a title that holds little sway.

### Judiciary

The Judiciary of the United Federation handles the interpretation of the
laws laid out by the legislation including the intentions of the laws
set forth. The Judiciary does not write the law, they only interpret and
enforce the law. Though the general public sees the Judiciary as a place
where the truth is found, it is more accurate to describe the process as
a fact-finding system. Most cases are tried in front of a judge who
determines the outcome of a trial. However, depending on the case and
the planet member trying the case, a jury might be impaneled to
determine the verdict. For large cases, a Federation Grand Jury must be
impaneled to determine whether a criminal prosecution is viable enough
to continue while a Special Jury is impaneled for judging war crimes.
The Judiciary also has a system that decides who oversees Military Court
Cases to discourage a separation of Civilian and Military culture. Of
course, judges chosen for Military Court Cases study military law in
addition to civilian law.

#### The Two Branches of the Courts

Due to the nature of the United Federation's structure, the Judiciary is
split into two main branches, Nation State (or simply state) and
Federal. A Nation State Judiciary would handle local laws set forth by
the governing body of a planet member of the Federation. Local laws
would typically not override Federal law but it unavoidably happens on
occasion. Local laws would typically reflect the cultural values of the
planet they belong to. The structure of the Nation-State Judiciary
starts from District, local Appeals, sector appeals, regional appeals,
to Supreme Court. There would be variations of this structure depending
on the planet member. The Federal Judiciary would handle all Federation
and Military laws that apply to all planet members of the United
Federation. They usually do not interfere on a local state level unless
a case has details pertaining to Federal law. In addition, the Monarchy
would appoint a judge to represent them in the highest court a case can
be appealed to, the Royal Court. The appointed judge is expected to
nominate two or three other judges to advise them on cases that reach
the Royal Court. The structure of the Federal Judiciary starts from
District, local Appeals, sector appeals, regional appeals, Supreme
Court, to Royal Court. Unlike the Nation State court system, the Federal
Court System does not deviate from this structure.

#### Federation Law

The Fundamental Principles of the United Federation are written in two
documents:

-   The Federation Charter states the goals, duties, and rights of
    planet members of the United Federation. It was Ratified in 2355
    when the United Federation became an official government body. The
    Charter also lays out the requirements of membership in the United
    Federation and outlines the structure of the governing body
    including the role of the Monarch.
-   The Federation Constitution lists all the universal rights and
    guarantees given to an individual citizen. These rights and
    guarantees include the right to an attorney, the right remain
    silent, the rights of an artist, and the right of free speech (but
    is not guaranteed protection from the consequences of that speech,
    eg being removed from duties, positions, banned from areas, etc.
    should the speech be reasonably argued as hate or otherwise
    problematic and contrary to overall beliefs of the post.) It is
    specifically noted that no one has the right to carry an energy or
    kinetic gun (or anything similar) without proving that they are
    responsible enough to carry and are mentally and physically able to
    use a weapon. This test of responsibility is administered by the Law
    Enforcement AI, YUI, and is administered at least monthly and at
    most annually depending on the member planet.

Additionally, The Federation Judicial Code handles guidelines and
regulations of issues tried in court cases.

### Executive

The Executive Branch is responsible for the day-to-day operations of
government. This branch is headed up by the Prime Minister (Or
President, depending on the preference of title name by the elected
individual. Prime Minister is the default title.) They, along with the
Monarch, determines the foreign policy of the United Federation and is
responsible for checking the Monarch when it comes to military affairs
by discussing plans and orders with them and deciding whether to sign
the order or not. The Prime Minister is also responsible for managing
government budgets after they are determined by the Legislation, sign
bills into law, and oversee a cabinet of Federation Executives that
assist in day-to-day operations. The Prime Minister also nominates
judges for the Federal Supreme Court. To date, there have been three
leaders that fit the description as Head of Government for the United
Federation. Chairman Beaufort during the Eugenics War, President Scylla
Clyne, and current President Athena Risu.

### Legislation

The Federation Senate is a unicameral legislative body with elected
representatives from each member world. It holds the power to create,
amend, and ratify Federation Law. The Senate also holds influence in the
Federation Military and policies both domestic and foreign. They have
the ability to hold special tribunals and investigations into matters
that threaten the Federation as a whole. They also submit proposals for
who can run for the Head of Government and determines if the Monarch or
Head of Government is fit for duty. The Senate also has the power of the
purse, meaning they have control over the budget. Additionally, they
determine if the heir to the throne is worthy to wear the crown given to
a Head of State. The Senate Building is located on Gaia in the capital
city of Etria, Gallia.

#### Elections, Terms, and Limits

There are no term limits set for the Prime Minister so they can run for
office for as long as they want or until the Legislation deems them
unfit. However, this doesn't mean a term lasts forever. Every 5 Gaian
Years(The Gaian calendar has roughly 6 more days on the calendar than on
Earth,) there is a general election to determine who can be the next
Prime Minister. The votes cast for elections are directly from the
citizens as opposed to being sent to an electorate and because of how
large the United Federation is, planet members are required to set aside
a day to allow for voting. Voting is a right granted by the Federation
and any party or planet attempting to change district lines, regional
lines, voting laws, etc. in order to sway a vote is considered a
prosecutable offense.

Membership
----------

By law, the United Federation is required to recognize legitimate claims
of sovereignty and independence from the United Federation. However,
during the making of the Federation Charter, concerns by loyalists were
raised including free and careless secession from the Federation without
regard for the other members and how secession would affect them. As the
Federation Assembly continued, it was eventually agreed that the process
of secession must meet certain requirements and proven to have been met
in a court of law in the form of a lawsuit in federal court. These
requirements were slowly made to be more difficult to prove over the
years due to loyalist legislation.

### Demographics

The dominant species of the United Federation are Ecureuilian, a
mammalian humanoid that is reminiscent of a squirrel from Earth.

The United Federation makes up most of the known galaxy's demi-humanoid
population. Of these demi-humanoid type species, a fraction are humans
that are genetically modified to look like a mammal found on Earth. The
humans themselves are immigrants who found themselves in the former
Federation-Alliance before the Eugenics War broke out.

Exploration, Defense, Law Enforcement
-------------------------------------

The United Federation maintains a number of agencies that are involved
mainly in Exploration and Defense. Law Enforcement varies between member
worlds and their regions but is universally overseen by the government
all the same. All defensive measures are overseen by the Monarch and
Prime Minister. The most notable of these agencies is the Deep-Space
Exploration and Defense Service, Starfleet.

### Starfleet

Starfleet was originally founded during the early years of the
Federation-Alliance when Gaia started sending warp-capable ships out to
expand their borders and political influence. It is a deep-space
exploration and defense service maintained now by the United Federation.
Before, Starfleet was a small organization that would only handle
scientific and diplomatic endeavors while members of the
Federation-Alliance handled their own fleets and contributed a fraction
of their military power to a larger combined fleet. That changed after
the Eugenics Civil War when all fleets were folded into Starfleet and
their mandate changed significantly. The principal functions of
Starfleet are the advancement of knowledge about the galaxy, scientific
advancement, and more important than ever: the defense of the
Federation. Because of their role in deep-space including contact with
new cultures and sentient species, Starfleet Officers acted as official
representatives of the Federation, playing a significant role in
diplomacy. Starfleet also handles most "airforce" related operations
during planetary conflicts.

### The UFGA

Note: This is a placeholder name. If someone has a suggestion for the
name of the Army, let me know. -Joan

The United Federation Grand Army was founded after the end of the
Confederacy. It is the unified military organization that handles most
ground/planetary operations that Starfleet cannot or was not mandated
handle. While separate from Starfleet, members of the UFGA are often
asked to serve on-board Starfleet and Maritime Navy ships for training
in order to ensure cohesion and keep the three organizations from
feeling like strangers to each other. Out of the three, the UFGA are the
better equipped to deal with ground combat. Before the Grand Army,
members of the Federation-Alliance would maintain their own armies and
contribute a fraction of their military power to the Alliance army and
this practice was continued after the end of the Eugenics Civil War
during the days of the Confederacy albeit in a less properly executed
fashion. The Confederacy's lack of executive power meant it was unable
to enforce both a tax to support a federal army nor properly utilize it
to enforce confederate law.

### Federation Maritime Navy

The Federation Maritime Navy is the Federation's Military organization
dedicated to ensuring the security and exploration of the oceans of
member worlds. Because Starfleet has roots in Naval traditions, both the
Maritime Navy and Starfleet get along and work together greatly. The
Maritime Navy handles sea operations and will often assist Grand Army
units operating on coastlines. They also have their own brand of air
forces to engage in aerial combat and airstrikes. In cases of planetary
blockades, the Maritime Navy is expected to work with Grand Army units
in defense of their positions.

### Law Enforcement

Due to the vastness of space, Law Enforcement is handled largely by
Starfleet Security who is overseen by the Federation Security Council.
Formerly, Security was directed by a computerized AI system but after
revelations of criminal bio-engineering and admittance of criminals into
the system's intelligence, the system was immediately shut down by a
combination of civil unrest and Legislative oversight, and replaced with
a system known as YUI which forces law enforcement to do their own
investigative work by only giving them an involved person's
identification. Starfleet Security Officers have access to Law
Enforcement ground vehicles, starfighters, and even small starships for
the more dangerous or far-reaching investigations. The most notable side
arm Starfleet Security Officers use is the MW-1 Dominator which is
linked to a mobile command unit who determines what level of force is
used, similar to the KHI-98a Protector which is alert level compliant to
a facility's security codes. In cases of increased force being allowed,
officers choose whether to exercise lethal force or remain engaged in a
non-lethal capacity. In some cases, a team of two or more officers would
designate one or more members of their team to be the lethal carrier
while the others attempt a non-lethal takedown.

### Genetics and Clones

More recently, with genetic modification becoming less and less a taboo
in the general population once more, a project to create clones of high
performing soldiers was created. This project raises these clones as
individuals, avoiding molding their personalities to be exact copies of
their originals. Their skills and specializations follow suit, varying
from special operations to combat professionals. To avoid clashing
personalities between non-Clones and Clones, training in cohesion and
classes based on the lessons from the Eugenics War are conducted.
Legislation limits the number of Clones that can be active at a time due
to the time-consuming process it takes for specialized training and the
general support required to keep the clones integrated. This limit also
takes into account logistics as the Federation can only economically
support a large number of personnel at a time. The number rarely goes
down but the UFGA policy is to never actually go near the limit so there
is a margin between the ceiling and the number of active serving clones.

### Restricted Warfare
