''"Technology, life, innovation - We at Vey-Med remain at the forefront, pushing the boundaries of tomorrow."''<br>— Vey-Med advertisement slogan

{{toc_right}}<onlyinclude>Pick any piece of equipment in a modern hospital, and you'll likely encounter a Vey-Med product. Offering hardware ranging from handheld medical scanners to the famous [[Guide_to_robotics#Odysseus|Odysseus]] ambulance exosuit, Vey-Med has firmly established itself on the galactic market. However, Vey-Med's call to fame is not so much medical hardware as it is wetware. Vey-Med offers a wide range of biological products, ranging from gene-spliced plants, spare organs, farm animals, and even human cloning.</onlyinclude>

==About==

===History===
Formed at the dawn of the century, Vey-Med is one of the youngest [[List_of_Trans-Stellar_Corporations|corporate actors]] on the galactic stage. Vey-Med was the result of a merger between the Veyrani Research Group and Median Manufacturing; the former a biomedical concern, the latter a manufacturing conglomerate. The medical expertise provided by Veyrani coupled with the production-base of Median proved an excellent combination, as large-scale manufacturing techniques were adapted towards organ printing and cloned livestock.

Vey-Med saw steady financial growth as it continued to expand over the course of the following decades, offering cheaper and cheaper products and services as its technology improved. As Vey-Med grew, so did competition with [[Zeng-Hu Pharmaceuticals]]. The two giants have seemingly become fierce rivals, competing ruthlessly in the medical service markets. Although, some suspect the two corporations may in fact be playing the market for mutual gain. Towards the late 2530s, Vey-Med began to invest into human cloning and bio-engineering in earnest - a field that had traditionally seen spotty business interest at best, being one full of legal restrictions as well as ever-present popular controversy.

===Present Day===
Vey-Med operates countless planetary and orbital hospitals, as well as a flotilla of medical spacecraft. Vey-Med offers top-quality synthesized organs and gene-treatments, always seeming to crop up in the shadow of Zeng-Hu. Vey-Med's cloning projects remain controversial to this day, with discussions of the legality, ethics and benefits of the corporation's living products fairly commonplace. Vey-Med maintains all cloned lifeforms are treated ethically, but spotty implications suggests there may be more to it than meets the public eye.

[[Category:Fluff]]
[[Category:Corporations]]